=== README ===

Sked -- The wikish scheduler - http://wikisked.sourceforge.net/
(c) 2006-10 Alexandre Erwin Ittner - alexandre@ittner.com.br


== About ==

Sked is a personal organizer, calendar, schedule and braindump application
with a wiki-like syntax for text formatting and organization. It is easier
think of it as the result of the merge of a calendar with a desktop wiki.

Sked is designed to optimize your workflow and everything is tailored to speed
up editing operations: links and styles are unobtrusively inferred from the
syntax, entries are automatically saved after a few seconds, almost all
commands have keyboard shortcuts, and the last entries are kept in a history.
Also, the wiki code is *not* hidden from the editing interface -- this makes
editing easier, avoids the create/view/change cycle, and allows your to copy
and paste text among other applications without loss of information. An
user-defined delay is given before the text reformatting, so its appearance
will not change while you are typing.

All entries are stored in a compressed and encrypted Berkeley DB4 database in
your $HOME directory. The encryption aims protect the information even from a
skilled adversary (but I am not a cryptologist and have not done any extensive
analysis of the DB4's crypto implementation -- it is a standard 128 bit AES).
Users wanting a stronger security level should use full volume encryption for
the $HOME directory.

== News ==

= News in the current version =

  * The search system now allows finding entries with names near to a given
    search term.

= News in version 0.3 =

Sked internals were redesigned in version 0.3, preparing the code for some
new features and interface changes in the future version 0.4. The database
format was also changed, so, please read the section "Installation and upgrade"
before upgrading your existing installation. A summary of the changes include:

  * The local search function is now case-insensitive;
  * Some bugs in the undo/redo command were fixed;
  * The position of the cursor is saved now (thanks Vyacheslav Slobodyan for
    this suggestion);
  * The wiki-code interpreter was improved to prevent misformating;
  * Now it is possible to disable the password protection of the database;
  * A small margin was added to the main text box for better readability;


== Requirements ==

  * Python >= 2.5
  * PyGTK+ >= 2.10
  * python-Levenshtein >= 0.10.0 is required for the name similarity search.
    It is available in the most popular desktop Linux distributions and in
    http://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-Levenshtein/


== Installation and upgrade ==

Sked is provided in several formats and the installation procedures varies.
The .tar.gz package works for every supported operating system, but requires
manual installation -- these packages must be unpacked in the final
installation directory, like /opt/sked/. The installation of Debian packages
is simpler -- just call them up on with dpkg or double-click it to install
with your distribution's default installer.

A special caution is needed when upgrading from a previous version of Sked,
since new versions may bring incompatible changes to the database format. The
best way to ensure a successful upgrade is to export the database as XML and
import it back. The procedure is:

  1. In the menu "File", select "Export..." and give a file name to export
     the current database to a XML file;
  2. Remove the old database (stored in ~/.local/share/sked/sked2.db);
  3. Upgrade Sked;
  4. Open the new version. Sked will create a new database;
  5. In the menu "File", select "Import..." and select the file give in the
     first step.


== To Do ==

  * Port the user interface to use GtkActions;
  * Find a better file locking system;
  * Add a DBus backend to handle multiple callings;
  * Printing;
  * Export entries as XHTML.


== Know bugs ==

  * Find and replace is a no-op;
  * The application leaves stray lockfiles in the event of an OS crash or
    power failure;


== Wiki syntax ==

  === Header 1 ===
  == Header 2 ==
  = Header 3 =

  *bold*
  _underline_
  //italic//
  [[Link]]
  ||| Preformated text |||

  Notes:
    * URLs are parsed intelligently;
    * Dates in the formats DD/MM/YYYY and YYYY-MM-DD recognized automatically;
    * No other text are allowed in the same line as the headers.




== License ==

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple
Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

